of all the confounding results in this
past election perhaps the strangest
phenomenon was the surprising number of
people who voted for Democrats down
ballot and then checked off Donald Trump
for president that was the case in New
York's 14th District a number of Voters
cast their ballot for both Trump and one
of the House's most Progressive
Democrats congresswoman Alexandro acasio
Cortez better known as AOC and while the
Democratic party is still reeling from
the results congresswoman Ocasio Cortez
is doing something a lot of the DC folks
aren't doing which is talking to social
media and actually talking to voters to
figure out why this
happened if you voted for Donald Trump
and me or if you voted for Donald Trump
and voted Democratic down ballot I would
really love to hear from you um this is
not a place of judgment I'm not going to
like put your stuff on blast or anything
like that or dunk on it that's like
genuinely not the intent here I actually
want to learn from you I want to hear
what you were thinking and um I just
want to hear from you joining me now is
the aforementioned democratic
congresswoman Alexandri Alexandria
Ocasio Cortez of New York okay alc what
they say I mean there's a lot of
different things that we saw I think
there's a lot of people first of all
it's important to note that Democrats
often times when we lose elections we
think that we lost people to Trump and
that is true in in circumstances but
they don't look enough that at the fact
that we also lost people to the couch MH
we have two people that we running
against so a lot of people say this is
why I voted for you and Trump and some
people say this is why I didn't vote or
didn't vote top of the ticket right skip
the top of the ticket which by the way
there's been a lot of paranoia about the
fact that Democrats were able to win
Statewide in some places while Comm
haris lost and I keep trying to tell
people there are voters who go in and
either just vote the top Trump voters
who will say I just want Trump don't
care about Republicans and the reverse
you say I'm not voting top of the ticket
but I'll vote everybody else right right
and we I think we saw some of that
happen as well um but when it comes to
people who split their ticket I think a
lot of people cited several different
things one
is there is universal frustration in
this country much of it actually think
Justified that is Raging at a political
establishment that centers corporate
interests billionaires and puts their
needs ahead of the needs of working
Americans and we know that we can either
Channel this righteous
rage because there are people whose snap
was cut off their child tax credits were
cut off but they're seeing people like
Elon Musk getting tax breaks and kissing
up to Donald Trump in order to do so but
they vote for then why vote for Elon
Musk and Donald Trump and I think that
of course is the question makes no sense
and I think part of it has to do with
the fact that and I think we're still in
a process of going through the data it's
important to say that yes and I actually
think that it's important to say that
the people who are rushing to to say let
me give you my grand theory of what's
going on right now problem to woke sorry
K Harris was running with Liz Cheney at
her side she wasn't going quote unquote
woke if we had an election on November
5th and November 6th you've got an
answer don't listen to those people I
agreed do not listen to those people so
I want to have the I want to say that we
should all have the humility of saying
this is an ongoing learning process
however there is something to be said
about it doesn't matter that he's lying
he's saying that I'm fighting for you in
all of this debate that people are
talking about with this woke thing right
oh my gosh uh it's because we care about
trans people and that's why by only
Donald Trump cared about trans people
because he was the one running $130
Million worth of ads the Harris campaign
said nothing about this issue that's
right that's right and listen the ads
it's not to even deny the fact that
these ads were effective in certain
areas what I think people are paying too
much attention to is the first half of
that ADH which says KLA Harris is or
that said KLA Harris is for they them
everyone's focusing on that they're not
focusing on the second half of that ad
where he said Donald Trump is for you
yeah yeah and Democrats very often in
their messaging they speak and in this
in terms and in Concepts and not in the
second person I care about you
and political races are not about one
candidate versus another candidate too
often it gets pigeon ho hold like that
it is a race to convince a person about
who cares about you more Let me let me
ask you this question because we've been
talking a lot about AR Jr my mind is a
bit blown I mean I we I we knew that
Donald Trump would go would go wild
there's no constraints on him he could
just he can just put all his friends in
but we're talking about RFK Jr and the
possibility of people pulling back on
measles V vines on another pandemic
happening you're talking about Matt
Gates there's a 17-year-old girl out
there terrified that all of her records
all of the witnesses against him in this
case where she was trafficked could be
in the hands of Matt Gates and he could
be the most powerful law enforcement
official in the country in a case where
the president of the United States is an
adjudicated sexual abuser if you're a
sexual assault Survivor you're thinking
oh my God this country is out to get me
they're out to get me and force me to
have children by seexual assault so the
the message to women has been in in
insane okay and the people he's
nominating are TV hosts Etc do you think
the people who voted for him that you've
talked to were expecting this no no or
or or true Mass deportation genuinely
genuinely yeah no and it's heartbreaking
actually it it is it is heartbreaking
and people may want to take like a a
kind of vengeful stance about this but
it is genuinely heartbreaking
people need to understand that there are
people millions of people in this
country and I was one of them where you
are
working two three shifts a day to try to
make ends me you're not reading the
newspaper every morning with a cup of
coffee yeah you're not and it's not to
say that people are uneducated or
uninformed or anything like that but
like this is real life this is real life
you got a baby on your hip and you've
got two three shifts to work in that day
and you're just trying to make things
work and you have such overwhelm of
information and I actually think
something that is different about this
moment than I saw whether it was 2020 or
20 after 2016 is that almost like right
the day
after people immediately said we're
coming to me and saying he's not
actually going to do that right and it's
important to say people people may often
say he said he was going to do this it
was right here on the campaign Trail if
you actually listen to him if you listen
to Donald Trump's acceptance speech spe
when he talked about immigration he
talked about legal Pathways first yeah
yeah he didn't say he he didn't lead
with mass deportation AB okay I'm gonna
I'm going to hold you we're going to
hold you over if you don't mind we're
gonna hold for one more we're going to
take a quick break pay for all of this
uh and then when we come back AOC will
still be right here with me stay right
there Alexandria Ocasio Cortez is back
with me um we were talking uh a little
bit about the the the shock that people
are feeling about not really thinking
Donald Trump was going to do the things
he was doing let's talk about Mass
deportation do you think the 55% of
Latino men the 40 some odd per of
Latinos thought he was really going to
do it no I
think what is interesting kind of what
what we were discussing earlier is that
one of the things that I learned when I
was asking about people who voted for
Donald Trump and me I asked them where
do you get your news from how do you
like take in information right and one
of the things that they said is that one
of their primary trusted sources of
information
was they said you as in me yeah that
means that they rely on me as their
elected official for information
directly it also means that they are
listening to him directly for his
information and as we said earlier he in
Donald Trump's victory speech he said
that when he talked about immigration
the first thing that he talked about was
legal Pathways he talked about Mass
deportation afterwards and so I think
people who believe what he says when he
says we're only going after criminals
they think that he's going after
somebody
else meanwhile the Republican Party the
Trump campaign people like step Miller
yeah they believe that being
undocumented means you are a criminal
right right and and they don't
understand that I want to talk a couple
talk about a couple of the pics that you
know as you said people may not have saw
coming Matt Gates you've had to deal
with him uh as a a member of Congress
How concerned are you about him being
attorney general you know I think right
now the mood on the hill you know
there's a lot of Republican uproar about
it I find it interesting too it's
important to note that Matt Gates won
general election to the 119th Congress
so he resigned his seat that he just
won just for to finish this term yeah
the seat that he just won starts in
January right so he may just be away
from Congress for 2 months yeah
potentially just to expunge this ethics
report do you think it'll come out the
ethics report well I think there's a
large Juris jurisdiction I don't know if
the Ethics Committee has a legal grounds
now to release it I do wonder if the
Senate would subpoena it in order to
understand and make a full uh have a
fully informed decision yeah uh s
similar to I think when you had justice
Kavanaugh with credible sexual assault
allegations and there was an FBI report
and that whole investigation is is
something else you know a different
matter but the Senate it was still
relevant to a senate confirmation
hearing and so I I think that's an open
question as to whether the Senate would
um subpoena it I wonder if the
Democratic Senate majority now would be
able to to do that uh as well I don't
know these are open legal questions to
not fear that then he would be confirmed
and then go after them um let's talk
about RFK Jr and we we were talking a
little bit in the break let's bring that
forward to TV some of the concerns you
have about what he might do to HHS yeah
I think it's what's very important too
is that yes there are these concerns
about vac you have a baby and anywhere
in the world I mean protecting against
polio against measles against very
serious communicable diseases that I
mean we would be talking about going
back to the what 1700 1800 I mean this
is serious but on top of that if you're
a republican that voted for Donald Trump
you believe in in his agenda yeah
something that is broadly popular among
Republicans and and Democrats are
community health centers if you live in
a rural area and there's not a hospital
very close to you but there is a
community center closer to you it could
be decimated under Robert F Kennedy and
we are talking about people who live in
rural communities we're talking about
people who live in underserved
communities that have been neglected in
order to whether it's to get a shot or
just to get checked up on sure you we're
talking about the potential decimation
of Community Health centers and we
haven't even gotten to tulsey gabard
potentially having access to National
Security information and Russia loves it
loves her and I actually think almost
more than Matt Gates telsey gabbard's
appointment yeah
is
devastating and Chelsea gabbard's
nomination as much as she says that
she's an anti-war person she's not yeah
she
supports very pro-war individuals
including in Syria and let's be very
clear a Tulsi gabard nomination is a
proar nomination globally Point Blank
period as is uh Donald Trump as
president of the United States uh
Congressman Alexandri acasio Cortez
thank you so much much appreciated thank
you and